we begin with the latest in the Middle
East President Joe Biden is to speak
with the Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu later today and that's as
Israel faces Global condemnation for
what what it calls a mistaken air strike
that killed seven Aid workers in Gaza
the United Nations has suspended
overnight Aid operations in the strip
for at least 48 hours to evaluate
Security in the wake of the attack on
Monday the head of the charity that the
victims had worked for has accused
Israel of deliberately targeting his
staff Israel's economy Minister near
barcat says it's nonsense to suggest
that the IDF deliberately targeted Aid
workers describing the incident as a
tragic mistake sea Dilly
reports John Chapman James Henderson and
James Kirby the three British men among
seven Aid workers killed by Israeli air
strikes earlier this week they were
working for an aid charity their
humanitarian mission to distribute food
but what I know is that we were targeted
deliberately nonstop until everybody was
dead in this
Convoy humanitarians and
civilians should never be paying the
consequences of War this is a basic
principle of humanity at the at the time
this looks like it's not a war against
terrorism anymore seems this is a war
against humanity itself
Israel says it will investigate but it
insists the aid workers died as a result
of a tragic mistake there's no way in
the world that Israel would Target
people that come to give people Aid
that's nonsense I'm sorry give us a bit
of uh of respect that we we care about
those people and it's the same people
that helped Israel we will never Target
people like this targeted or otherwise
their deaths are among thousands in
International concern is growing even
among Israel's closest allies it doesn't
really matter how they made the mistake
at the end of the day you have seven
dead Aid workers who are there trying to
deliver humanitarian assistance in non-
diplomatic speak America is losing
patience other allies including the UK
are also applying pressure on Israel
responding to concerns about a growing
humanitarian crisis of course the extra
Aid won't work unless there is proper
deconfliction unless Aid can be taken
around Gaza and we avoid the Dreadful
incidents like we see we've seen in the
last couple of days that is vital and
Britain will be watching very closely to
make sure that that
happens and 600 prominent lawyers
including three retired Supreme Court
judges say they're watching how the UK
government reacts in a strongly worded
letter to ministers they say the UK
risks breaking international law if they
don't stop providing weapons to
Israel the UK prime minister Rishi sunak
said an independent investigation should
take place into the death of Aid workers
but he stopped short of agreeing to
cross-party calls to suspend UK weapons
exports to Israel sea Dilly BBC
News well our Middle East correspondent
yolan Nell brought us this update from
Jerusalem well we have the Israeli
military saying that it's conducting
this thorough and transparent
investigation um it's also viewing
proceedings and saying that it's looking
at setting up a joint situation room
where you would have the Israeli
military working with International
organizations to coordinate the
distribution of Aid on the ground I mean
there's still continuing diplomatic
Fallout from all of this and we have
been hearing um that the US President
Joe Biden is expected to speak for the
first time since the killing of these
Aid workers um he supposed to speak to
the Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu he's previously said he's
outraged and heartbroken by what
happened but what he hasn't shown yet is
any willingness really to kind of uh use
more of the US leverage against Israel
um when it comes to its dis
dissatisfaction over the conduct of the
war particularly when it comes um to uh
US military assistance that is given we
had overnight comments that were made um
by uh the US Secretary of Defense Lloyd
Austin talking to his Israeli
counterpart yoav Galant we're told that
he was demanding concrete steps um to
improve the coordination with different
foreign aid groups said that this was
all going to complicate efforts um to to
flood uh Gaza with agid which was the
commitment that they had had uh from the
Israelis and also um made a connection
here between Americans concerns about uh
the idea of a ground offensive by Israel
a fullscale ground offensive in Rafa in
the very south of the Gaza Strip because
uh the the US concerns about that have
really been on humanitarian grounds
because of the numbers of displaced
people there interestingly we also heard
some comments from an Israeli diplomatic
correspondent about Rishi Sak's
conversation uh with the Israeli Prime
Minister um particularly related to the
the deaths of the three um Britain who
were killed in this Israeli air strike
in Gaza and he was saying the
correspondent said that if there was no
change um in the the situation regarding
humanitarian Aid getting into Gaza then
the UK might have to declare Israel in
violation of international humanitarian
law that's something that would have uh
real consequences um Downing Street has
not wanted to go uh Beyond its initial
kind of readout of that conversation
between the two prime ministers uh
hasn't directly commented on what we've
heard here in Israel